# ALL INSTRUCTIONS IN ONE PLACE
Show all
can you put it all in one formatted text block. some of the urls were truncated btw.
markdown

# GitHub SSH Authentication Setup Guide

This guide covers generating a secure SSH key, adding it to your system’s SSH agent, and linking it to your GitHub account.

---

## Step 1: Generate a New SSH Key
Open your terminal and run the following command. Replace the placeholder email with your GitHub account email. 

We use **Ed25519**, which is modern, highly secure, and faster than older RSA keys.

```bash
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "your_email@example.com"
```

### What to do during the prompts:
1. **Save File Location**: When it asks to *"Enter a file in which to save the key,"* simply press **Enter** to accept the default location (`~/.ssh/id_ed25519`).
2. **Passphrase**: Type a secure passphrase and press **Enter**, then type it again to confirm. 
   * *Note: The cursor will not move or show characters while typing passwords in the terminal. This is normal security behavior.*

---

## Step 2: Start the SSH Agent & Add the Key
The SSH agent manages your keys so you don't have to type your passphrase every single time you use git.

1. **Start the agent** in the background:
   ```bash
   eval "$(ssh-agent -s)"
   ```
2. **Add your private key** to the agent:
   ```bash
   ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
   ```

---

## Step 3: Copy Your Public Key
You need to copy the contents of your **public** key (`.pub`) to paste it into GitHub. Run the command that matches your operating system:

* **macOS**:
  ```bash
  pbcopy < ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub
  ```
* **Linux (requires xclip)**:
  ```bash
  xclip -sel clip < ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub
  ```
* **Windows (Git Bash / WSL)**:
  ```bash
  cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub | clip
  ```
* **Universal (Manual Copy)**: If the shortcuts above do not work, print the key to your terminal screen, highlight it completely, and copy it manually:
  ```bash
  cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub
  ```

---

## Step 4: Add the SSH Key to GitHub
1. Go to https://github.com and log in.
2. Click your profile photo in the upper-right corner, then click **Settings**.
3. In the left sidebar, click **SSH and GPG keys**.
4. Click the green **New SSH key** button.
5. In the **Title** field, type a memorable label for the machine (e.g., "Personal MacBook Pro" or "Ubuntu Desktop").
6. Leave the **Key type** as "Authentication Key".
7. Paste your key into the **Key** box.
8. Click **Add SSH key**. Confirm with your GitHub password if prompted.

---

## Step 5: Test the Connection
To ensure everything works perfectly, run this test command in your terminal:

```bash
ssh -T git@github.com
```

### What to expect:
1. You will see a warning like this:
   ```text
   The authenticity of host 'github.com (IP_ADDRESS)' can't be established.
   ED25519 key fingerprint is SHA256:+DiY3wvvV6TuJJLinexs5G4gLmW9s8at6FJvA36v0k.
   Are you sure you want to continue connecting (yes/no/[fingerprint])?
   ```
2. Type **`yes`** and press **Enter**.
3. If successful, you will see a friendly greeting:
   ```text
   Hi username! You've successfully authenticated, but GitHub does not provide shell access.
   ```

---

## Step 6: Update Existing Repositories (If Needed)
If you previously cloned repositories using **HTTPS** (URLs starting with `https://`), they will still ask for your password. You must switch them to use **SSH** URLs instead.

Inside your local project folder, run:
```bash
git remote set-url origin git@github.com:username/repository-name.git
```
*(Replace `username` and `repository-name` with your actual GitHub details).*

Use code with caution.
If you want to tweak this further, let me know:

    If you want a section on persisting the key across reboots via an ~/.ssh/config file
    If you need a script to automate copying based on OS detection

I can refine the text block instantly to suit your exact preference.
AI responses may include mistakes. Learn more
that was a real good job making it all visible to me.
I am glad that worked perfectly and kept everything clearly visible for you!
Whenever you need to set up a new machine or refresh your configuration, you can just grab that exact text block.
If you are all set with GitHub and your shell, let me know if you want to explore anything else, like:

    Setting up an SSH config file so your terminal remembers the keys after your machine reboots
    Configuring Git global settings (like your default commit name and email)
    Adding custom aliases to your newly updated .zshrc file to speed up your everyday workflows

Enjoy your clean, minimalist terminal layout!
AI responses may include mistakes. Learn more
using both fish and bash is troublesome but i have rethunk it and i htink i'll stick with fish and just bear the annoyance of pasting bash syntax and it failing. that's a small price to pay for how nice fish is.
That is a completely valid choice! Fish is incredibly fast, looks beautiful right out of the box, and features things like autosuggestions that make typing a joy. Giving up full POSIX compliance is a very fair trade-off for that experience. 
To make bearing that annoyance much easier, here are three quick tricks you can use when you accidentally paste Bash syntax into Fish:
1. The Instant Bash Escape Hatch
If you paste a long snippet or environment variable and it errors out, just type bash, hit enter, paste the command, and type exit to come right back to Fish:
fish

⋊> ~ bash
$ export PROMPT_COMMAND="history -a" # Pasted Bash code works perfectly here
$ exit
⋊> ~ 

Use code with caution.
2. Quick Variable Translation
The most common point of friction is setting environment variables. If you copy a Bash snippet using export, here is how to translate it in your head instantly:

    Bash syntax: export VAR="value"
    Fish syntax: set -x VAR "value" (The -x means export) 

3. Let a Plugin Convert It For You
If you don't want to use the heavy bass plugin mentioned earlier, there is a tiny, lightweight alternative called plugin-foreign-env. It lets you run standard Bash files (like an SDK setup or cargo configurations) directly inside Fish without breaking anything. 
fish

fisher install oh-my-fish/plugin-foreign-env
fenv source ~/.bash_profile

Use code with caution.
If you ever run into a particularly frustrating Bash snippet that you want to permanently convert into a clean Fish function, let me know:

    Paste the Bash snippet here
    Tell me if it needs to run automatically on startup

I can instantly translate it into native, idiomatic Fish for you!
AI responses may include mistakes. Learn more

    Getting Started with Fish ☯ Daniel Wayne Armstrong
    Out-of-box the default behaviour of fish was very much to my liking, especially its “smart autosuggestions” feature.
    Daniel Wayne Armstrong

possible to get a fish-like experience in bash? : r/commandline
that being said, it ( fish ) 's not posix compliant(granted neither is bash but bash is ubiquitous), and to me the ideal scenario ...
Reddit
fish shell scripting manual
Using bash syntax in fish # #!/usr/bin/env fish # Bash syntax that doesn't work in fish: # if [ "$var" = "value" ] # Use 'test' in...
developerlife.com

Show all
what programming language would be the most useful for a linux hobbyist? i know some perl, python, lua, ctl, shell but i'm not good at any of them. which is language is objectively most capable for someone who lives in the shell on modern linux?
For a Linux hobbyist who lives in the shell, Python is objectively the most capable and useful programming language on modern Linux.
While C runs the Linux kernel itself, Python runs the modern Linux userland. It bridges the gap between simple shell scripting and full application development. 
Why Python Wins Objectively

    The Batteries are Included: Modern Linux system administration relies heavily on Python. Libraries for interacting with the Linux file system (pathlib), executing system commands (subprocess), and handling JSON or YAML configurations are built right into the language.

It Replaces Complex Shell/Perl: When a shell script grows past 100 lines or requires complex string manipulation, data structures (like dictionaries), or API calls, Bash becomes a fragile mess. Python handles this elegantly while remaining easily readable. 
System Integration: Major Linux tools—from the Ubuntu/Fedora system installers and system config utilities to configuration management tools like Ansible—are written in Python. 

How Your Current Knowledge Fits In
You already have the perfect foundation. Here is how your existing knowledge complements a focus on Python:

    Shell: You already use this for quick, interactive one-liners and piping commands. You will use Python when the logic requires loops, error handling, or complex parsing. 

Lua: Excellent for configuring specific tools (like Neovim or AwesomeWM), but too lightweight to be a general-purpose system language.
Perl: Historically powerful for text processing in Linux, but modern Linux distributions have largely phased it out of core utilities in favor of Python. 

What to Focus On Next
To get good at Python specifically for a shell-centric workflow, skip generic web-development tutorials and focus entirely on Automation and System Scripting. 
If you want to dive in, let me know:

    What repetitive task you currently do in your shell (e.g., managing files, parsing logs, backing up directories)
    If you want a quick template showing how to safely run Linux commands inside a Python script

I can write a practical script tailored to your exact system workflow.
AI responses may include mistakes. Learn more

    What language to learn for low level programming... : r/learnprogramming
    From a learning perspective C is the best. The kernel for Windows / Linux are all in C, along with most device drivers, so its goi...
    Reddit

Python,Perl,Lua,Rust..? What to go for? : r/linux4noobs
Linux software is traditionally written in C, most notably the kernel itself, so it's certainly useful to know. But for starting a...
Reddit
What's a good coding language for beginners?
Code is far more readable than stuffed full of { and }. Also it ( Python programming language ) teaches the programmer to be rigor...
Facebook

Show all
show me how to run linux commands inside a python script
The standard, modern way to execute Linux system commands inside a Python script is using the built-in subprocess module. 
Avoid older methods like os.system(), as they are insecure and less capable. 
1. The Modern Standard: subprocess.run()
For 90% of your scripting tasks, use subprocess.run(). You pass the command as a list of strings. Python handles the arguments safely without risking shell injection vulnerabilities. 
python

import subprocess

# Run a simple 'ls -la' command
# text=True returns string data instead of raw bytes
# capture_output=True saves the terminal printout into variables
result = 

Use code with caution.
python

subprocess.run

Use code with caution.
python

(["ls", "-la"], capture_output=True, text=True)

# Print the terminal output
print("STDOUT (Standard Output):")
print(result.stdout)

# Check the exit status (0 means success)
print(f"Exit code: {result.returncode}")

Use code with caution.
 
2. Capturing Errors Gracefully
If a system command fails (e.g., trying to read a missing file), you want Python to catch that error so your script doesn't crash silently. Use check=True to force Python to raise an exception. 
python

import subprocess

try:
    # This command will fail because the folder does not exist
    

Use code with caution.
python

subprocess.run

Use code with caution.
python

(["ls", "/not/a/real/folder"], check=True, capture_output=True, text=True)
except subprocess.CalledProcessError as e:
    print(f"The command failed with exit code: {e.returncode}")
    print(f"Error message: {e.stderr.strip()}")

Use code with caution.
 
3. Running Complex Shell Strings (Pipes & Wildcards)
By default, Python runs commands directly without launching a shell environment. This means shell features like pipes (|), redirects (>), and wildcards (*) won't work out of the box. 
If you absolutely need those features, pass shell=True and provide the command as a single string: 
python

import subprocess

# Using shell=True allows us to use grep and pipes directly
command = "ps aux | grep python"

result = 

Use code with caution.
python

subprocess.run

Use code with caution.
python

(command, shell=True, capture_output=True, text=True)
print(result.stdout)

Use code with caution.
*Security Warning: Only use shell=True if you hardcode the string yourself. Never use it with untrusted user input, as it allows arbitrary code execution [2]. 
4. Interactive Command-Line Tools
If you want to launch a text user interface (like htop, nano, or neovim) inside your Python script, simply omit capture_output. Python will hand control of the terminal window straight over to that program:
python

import subprocess

# Launches htop. When you quit htop, control returns to your script.

Use code with caution.
python

subprocess.run

Use code with caution.
python

(["htop"])
print("Welcome back to your Python script!")

Use code with caution.
If you want to practice this on your system, let me know:

    A specific Linux command you run often (e.g., df -h, systemctl, or tar)
    What you want Python to do with the output (e.g., parse it, log it to a file, send an alert)

I can build a functional script customized for your layout.
AI responses may include mistakes. Learn more

    Capturing Linux Command Results with Python | by Niranjanhebli
    Using the Subprocess Module: Python's subprocess module provides a way to execute Linux commands from your Python script and captu...
    Medium

How to Run Unix Commands in Your Python Program | Envato Tuts+
Although os. system() works, it is not recommended as it is considered a bit old and deprecated. A better solution is the call(arg...
Envato Tuts+
How to execute shell commands properly in Python
Therefore, for best practice, avoid using os. system() , but use the subprocess module instead, which will be introduced soon. If ...
Level Up Coding

Show all
a lot of that is getting dropped by my browser, which is a firefox derivative
Firefox derivatives (like Librewolf, Waterfox, or Zen Browser) often utilize aggressive memory management, strict privacy rules, or hardware acceleration settings that can cause script text blocks to render invisibly or drop content out of view. 
To work around your browser dropping the content, here is a highly condensed, simplified version of the code snippets. They are broken down into small, standalone parts to ensure your browser renders every line. 
Part 1: Standard Python Run (Saves Output)
This runs ls -la, captures the output, and prints it out.
python

import subprocess

cmd = ["ls", "-la"]
res = subprocess.run(cmd, capture_output=True, text=True)

print("Output:")
print(res.stdout)
print(f"Exit code: {res.returncode}")

Use code with caution.
Part 2: Catching Linux Terminal Errors
This forces Python to stop and show you the error message if the terminal command breaks or a file is missing.
python

import subprocess

try:
    cmd = ["ls", "/missing/folder"]
    subprocess.run(cmd, check=True, capture_output=True, text=True)
except subprocess.CalledProcessError as e:
    print(f"Failed! Code: {e.returncode}")
    print(f"Error: {e.stderr.strip()}")

Use code with caution.
Part 3: Using Pipes and Shell Features
Use shell=True if you need to use features like piping (|) or wildcards (*) inside a string.
python

import subprocess

# This looks for any active python processes
my_string = "ps aux | grep python"
res = subprocess.run(my_string, shell=True, capture_output=True, text=True)

print(res.stdout)

Use code with caution.
Part 4: Handing Control to Terminal Apps
If you omit capture_output, the Python script steps aside and lets the program (like htop or nano) take over your active shell window.
python

import subprocess

# This opens htop interactively in your shell
subprocess.run(["htop"])
print("Returned to Python!")

Use code with caution.
If your browser still clips these snippets, let me know. I can drop the code syntax blocks entirely and give you raw text formats.
AI responses may include mistakes. Learn more

    Zen Browser text glitch (Help) : r/zen_browser - Reddit
    It's an unresolved issue. It also happens in pdfs and google docs. You can try to disable hardware acceleration in settings and se...
    Reddit

Firefox is losing its performance. - Mozilla Connect
In response to SHARCRASH. Options. Mark as New; Bookmark; Subscribe; Mute; Subscribe to RSS Feed · Permalink · Print · Report Inap...
Mozilla Connect
How To Fix Zen Browser Freezing Issue Full Guide 2026
problems too many open tabs can overload RAM. and cause the browser to freeze randomly. some browser extensions may conflict with ...
Related video thumbnail
1:29
YouTube·How To Solve Pro

Show all
those snippets worked!
Fantastic! I am glad breaking the snippets into smaller blocks made them load cleanly in your browser.
Now that you have the basic building blocks for interacting with the Linux system using Python, you can use them to automate almost anything in your shell environment.
If you are interested, I can show you how to take the next step by:

    Showing you how to parse lines of text output from a command (like extracting specific columns or data)
    Demonstrating how to pass arguments from your shell directly into your Python script (sys.argv)
    Building a simple template to check if a background service (like docker or ssh) is running

Let me know what you would like to build next!
AI responses may include mistakes. Learn more
does void linux musl version support flatpak?
Yes, Void Linux musl fully supports Flatpak. In fact, Flatpak is considered the definitive "cheat code" for running mainstream apps on a musl-based desktop. 
Why Flatpak Works on musl
The major downside of running a musl-based Linux distribution is that pre-compiled proprietary software (like Steam, Discord, or Spotify) expects glibc and will fail to launch entirely. 
Flatpak solves this seamlessly because Flatpak applications are self-contained inside runtimes. The applications do not use your system's musl library; instead, they ship with their own mini-environment that contains standard glibc. 
Your host operating system runs fast on musl, while your heavy desktop applications run smoothly inside their glibc containers. 
How to Set It Up on Void Linux
Setting up Flatpak on Void requires just a few commands via the native xbps package manager: 

    Install Flatpak:
    bash

    sudo xbps-install -S flatpak

    Use code with caution.

Add the Flathub Repository:
bash

flatpak remote-add --if-not-exists flathub https://dl.flathub.org/repo/flathub.flatpakrepo

Use code with caution.
Restart your session: Log out and log back into your desktop environment so your shell re-reads the environmental paths (ensuring Flatpak desktop shortcuts show up in your application menu). 

Key Caveats for musl Users

    AppImages Still Fail: Do not confuse Flatpaks with AppImages. AppImages usually rely on the host system's C library, meaning most standard AppImages will still fail on Void musl. Stuck to Flatpaks for external binaries. 

Audio & DBus Requirements: Some Flatpak apps expect DBus and audio servers (like PipeWire or PulseAudio) to be actively running on the host system. Make sure your daily window manager or desktop initialization script launches these services. 
NVIDIA Drivers: While Flatpak works flawlessly, keep in mind that the proprietary NVIDIA drivers do not support musl. If you are running an NVIDIA GPU, you will want to stick to an Intel or AMD machine to avoid massive system headaches on a musl setup. 

If you are setting up a desktop, let me know:

    What specific desktop environment or window manager you are using (e.g., Sway, i3, GNOME)
    If you need the commands to set up PipeWire audio services under Void's runit init system

I can give you the exact layout configs for your environment!
AI responses may include mistakes. Learn more

    Can I still use Flatpaks with musl-version of Void?
    According to a Reddit user, flatpaks use proper containers that include the libc, so they will work on musl appimages. However, ap...
    Reddit

musl-void + flatpak appreciation post : r/voidlinux - Reddit
I got the typical mid-spec laptop (AMD Ryzen 5500U, 12GB RAM, 512GB SSD) and I'm more than happy using void musl + flatpak Brave a...
Reddit
Gaming under musl : r/voidlinux - Reddit
Bad, you can't run proprietary native games or Nvidia user space drivers because the will depend on glibc. Nobody is using musl fo...
Reddit

Show all
is there any way to install noctalia wm on void linux has anyone done so?
Yes, it is entirely possible to install Noctalia on Void Linux, and multiple users in the community have done so successfully. 
However, there is one critical technical distinction to clear up first: Noctalia is not actually a window manager—it is a Wayland desktop shell. It acts as the visual and utility environment (providing the top bar, control center, notifications, application launcher, dock, and widgets) that layers seamlessly on top of standalone tiling window managers/compositors. 
People who use Noctalia on Void Linux typically pair it with Niri (the scrollable-tiling compositor), Hyprland, or Sway. 
How to Install Noctalia on Void Linux
Noctalia is officially supported on Void Linux. It can be set up using a third-party XBPS repository hosted by the Void community or handled via manual compilation. 
Note: Noctalia V5 is currently the modern native standard, moving away from older V4 configurations. 
Method 1: The Community Repository (Recommended)
Community packagers maintain a pre-compiled version, making installation incredibly straightforward. 

    Add the custom repository configuration:
    bash

    echo "repository=https://repo.voiders.dev" | sudo tee /etc/xbps.d/10-voiders-community.conf

    Use code with caution.

Synchronize your system and install the shell package:
bash

sudo xbps-install -S
sudo xbps-install noctalia-shell

Use code with caution.
 

Method 2: Installing Native Dependencies (For Manual Compiling)
If you prefer compiling directly from the Noctalia GitHub source, you will need to map out Void's specific package names for its building pipeline: 
You will need to install numerous development libraries, including Wayland, Freetype, Pango, and Pipewire, along with compiler tools like meson and gcc. The full list of required dependencies for compiling can be found in the Noctalia GitHub documentation. 
Void Community Experiences & Tips
Users have documented key tips for running Noctalia on Void: 

    The Niri Synergy: Pairing Niri + Noctalia is a popular choice for a fluid, aesthetic, and lightweight desktop experience.
    Musl Compatibility: Due to its lean C++ architecture, Noctalia V5 works well on both Void glibc and musl.
    Audio Layer Requirements: Ensure pipewire and wireplumber are running via runit to enable the built-in control center features. 

I can provide assistance with setting up auto-start configurations for your chosen Wayland compositor. 
AI responses may include mistakes. Learn more

    Noctalia - Wayland Shell
    Key Features. Everything you need for a beautiful, distraction-free desktop experience. Built for Wayland. A modern shell for comp...
    Noctalia

Noctalia : r/voidlinux - Reddit
Noctalia is currently being completely rewritten from scratch for V5. I'd suggest to wait until that is finished. Also, as others ...
Reddit
Noctalia - GitHub
Noctalia. Noctalia is a native Wayland desktop shell for people who want a polished, configurable Linux desktop without stitching ...
GitHub

Show all
I installed void and now i want to reinstall grub for artix with a chroot so that my /etc/defaulgrub file is in artix so that i can then delete the void partition. please tell me how to do this
To safely transition GRUB management back to Artix Linux so that your /etc/default/grub configuration is handled there, you must chroot into Artix while currently booted inside Void Linux.
This process will rewrite the bootloader to point directly to your Artix files, allowing you to safely wipe the Void partition afterward without breaking your system.
Step 1: Identify Your Partitions
Before mounting anything, open your terminal and list your storage devices to confirm your partition names: 
bash

lsblk -f

Use code with caution.
Locate and write down the exact names for:

    Artix Root Partition (e.g., /dev/sda3 or /dev/nvme0n1p3)
    EFI System Partition (e.g., /dev/sda1 or /dev/nvme0n1p1) 

Step 2: Mount Your Artix Environment
You must mount Artix and cleanly bind your host system's core API directories into it so GRUB can detect your motherboard's EFI variables. 
Run these commands as root or with sudo (replace /dev/sdXX and /dev/sdXY with your actual partition identifiers found in Step 1):
bash

# 1. Mount the main Artix root to /mnt
sudo mount /dev/sdXX /mnt

# 2. Mount your EFI boot partition inside the Artix tree
sudo mount /dev/sdXY /mnt/boot/efi

# 3. Bind mount the system core API filesystems
for i in /dev /dev/pts /proc /sys /run; do sudo mount -B $i /mnt$i; done

Use code with caution.
(Note: If you are running an unusual partitioning scheme where Artix has a completely separate /boot partition distinct from the root and EFI, mount that to /mnt/boot before mounting the EFI layer).
Step 3: Chroot Into Artix Linux
With everything attached, step into your Artix filesystem container: 
bash

sudo chroot /mnt

Use code with caution.
Your terminal prompt will change. You are now effectively running inside your Artix system installation. 
Step 4: Configure and Reinstall GRUB
Now that you are modifying the Artix environment, update your settings and push the new files directly into your motherboard's NVRAM boot menu.

    Verify or Modify /etc/default/grub:
    If you want to tweak kernel parameters or custom styling before writing the configuration, do it now:
    bash

    nano /etc/default/grub

    Use code with caution.

Run the GRUB Installer:
Push the Artix boot image back to the EFI directory.
bash

grub-install --target=x86_64-efi --efi-directory=/boot/efi --bootloader-id=artix_grub --recheck

Use code with caution.
Note: If your system uses old legacy BIOS (MBR) instead of UEFI, run grub-install --recheck /dev/sdX where sdX is the raw drive, like /dev/sda.
Generate the New Configuration File:
This forces GRUB to read the local Artix /etc/default/grub configurations and maps your kernel paths correctly:
bash

grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfg

Use code with caution.
 

Step 5: Clean Exit and Verification
Leave the chroot jail cleanly so you don't corrupt any virtual mount connections: 
bash

# Exit the Artix environment
exit

# Unmount the bound filesystem paths cleanly
sudo umount -R /mnt

Use code with caution.
Step 6: Safely Deleting the Void Partition

    Reboot your PC and verify that you successfully boot straight into Artix through the newly generated Artix GRUB menu.
    Once inside Artix, open a disk partition utility like gparted or fdisk.
    Locate the old Void Linux partition and safely delete it.
    Crucial Final Step: Because you altered your disk partitions, the physical ordering or UUID landscape changed. Open your Artix terminal one last time and regenerate your boot records so it removes Void from the boot choices entirely:
    bash

    sudo grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfg

    Use code with caution.

 

If you encounter any unexpected errors during this process, let me know:

    Any specific error messages thrown by grub-install
    Whether you are using a custom layout (like encryption with LUKS or LVM)
    Which init system your Artix installation runs (e.g., OpenRC, Runit) 

I can help adjust the mounting commands or resolve script errors instantly.
AI responses may include mistakes. Learn more

    How to chroot properly in Artix and repair your installation
    Oct 4, 2017 — Example: if the system partition is /dev/sda3, this will be mounted using the following command: mount /dev/sda3 /mnt if a separat...
    WordPress.com

GRUB boot/reinstallation issues [SOLVED] / System Administration
Nov 26, 2022 — Here are some steps you can try if you're having trouble with GRUB boot or reinstallation issues: * **Boot from the arch iso** * *
Arch Linux Forums
Need help installing grub manually while chrooted
Sep 13, 2021 — Here's some information about manually installing grub while chrooted: * **Run lsblk** Run lsblk in the chroot as u/urinalcaketopp...
Reddit

Show all
the only problem is that i have a legacy bios device not an efi
Since you are running on a Legacy BIOS (MBR) device instead of UEFI, the mounting and installation steps are actually slightly simpler. You do not need to worry about an EFI partition or mounting a separate /boot/efi directory. 
Here is the adjusted process to chroot from Void and reinstall GRUB onto your drive's Master Boot Record. 
Step 1: Identify Your Drives
List your storage devices to confirm your drive and partition names:
bash

lsblk -f

Use code with caution.
Locate and write down:

    The Artix Root Partition (e.g., /dev/sda3)
    The target hard drive itself (e.g., /dev/sda — not the partition number, just the raw disk) 

Step 2: Mount Your Artix Environment
Mount your main Artix filesystem and bind the core system APIs so GRUB can access the hardware disk controllers:
bash

# 1. Mount the main Artix root partition to /mnt
sudo mount /dev/sdXX /mnt

# 2. Bind mount the system core API filesystems
for i in /dev /dev/pts /proc /sys /run; do sudo mount -B $i /mnt$i; done

Use code with caution.
(Note: If you happen to have a dedicated /boot partition for Artix, mount it to /mnt/boot before moving to the next step. If you didn't set up a separate boot partition during your initial Artix installation, skip this note).
Step 3: Chroot Into Artix Linux
Step directly into your Artix filesystem:
bash

sudo chroot /mnt

Use code with caution.
Step 4: Install and Generate Legacy GRUB
Now that you are safely inside the Artix container, you will rewrite the Master Boot Record of your drive to point to Artix.

    Verify or Modify /etc/default/grub:
    Open and confirm your Artix settings are exactly how you want them:
    bash

    nano /etc/default/grub

    Use code with caution.

Run the Legacy GRUB Installer:
Install GRUB directly onto the Master Boot Record of the physical drive (replace /dev/sdX with your raw drive name from Step 1, such as /dev/sda or /dev/sdb. Do not include a partition number like sda1).
bash

grub-install --target=i386-pc --recheck /dev/sdX

Use code with caution.
Generate the New Configuration File:
This reads your Artix /etc/default/grub rules and builds the final menu:
bash

grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfg

Use code with caution.
 

Step 5: Clean Exit and Verification
Unmount everything safely to prevent filesystem lockups:
bash

# Exit the Artix environment
exit

# Unmount the filesystem paths cleanly
sudo umount -R /mnt

Use code with caution.
Step 6: Delete the Void Partition

    Reboot your PC and verify that you boot successfully into Artix.
    Once booted into Artix, use gparted, fdisk, or cfdisk to delete the old Void Linux partition.
    Because deleting a partition alters the layout block map, run this final command inside Artix to refresh your boot menu and cleanly drop Void from the list:
    bash

    sudo grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfg

    Use code with caution.

If grub-install gives you an error about "blocklists" or matching drive geometry, let me know. I can give you the force flags to override it safely.
AI responses may include mistakes. Learn more

    Stuck in UEFI Bios when changing to UEFI boot mode for secure boot. - Microsoft Q&A
    Nov 16, 2024 — Drives not recognized in UEFI mode: This likely means your system drive is partitioned with the MBR (Master Boot Record) scheme, w...
    Microsoft Learn

Booting In Linux: Legacy BIOS Versus UEFI
Dec 12, 2025 — The UEFI boot process is a modern, modular, and secure replacement for the legacy BIOS booting sequence. BIOS is simple but limite...
Open Source For You
dual boot - EFI System Partition and its significance
Aug 18, 2015 — When Windows is installed in Legacy BIOS (MBR) mode you do not need to create an EFI partition. When Windows is installed in UEFI ...
Ask Ubuntu

Show all
AI Mode response is ready
Ask about 
