* Writing

tags: #mars #writing

  Will you come to the aid of the sentients who subsist in the
  Low-Canals Region of Wâhaz? Where the winds howl and scrape with
  abrasive dust of heavy metals. Where the spaceships make planetfall
  and Low-Canal women called greeters or /salvetators/ in the truly
  vulgar Latin of the region say /Salve/ when you debark and it's the
  only Latin they know. Where nightrunners thieve the contents of
  cradles and leave the front door swinging as they are gone into the
  darkling waste. The native homin gather in heaps of hovels they are
  pleased to call towns, cities. Manufactoria glow and burn and smoke
  day and night, in subarctic cold and summer warmth. And through the
  long cool Spring of the year and the long cool autumn too the
  latifundia are crawling with figures stooping to the red earth doing
  all the work. The people march homeward like armies of irregulars
  utterly spent from some universal cataclysm of the world. The huge
  sails of the iceboats dart like brightfeathered birds down the
  wide and frozen canals that converge here, they sail straight as the
  light of a holophote and gathering astounding speed, the only thing
  visible that is not dreary, as they vanish with distance around the
  foreshortened curvature of this small world. Flat terrain of red
  dust maculated with green, low cities of red and grey brick, small
  hills that disappear when the air gets dusty, and scrannel trees
  looking metallic and skeletal standing against the cold gails but
  trembling as they do so. The people turn to subspace radio dramas
  and drugs and vox stations and sex and a religion old as the homin
  species for stimulation and escape, and all are available for just a
  little money. Escape is imperative here, especially when leaving is
  impossible.

  See the man, he is dressed in black leather like a spacer, like he
  just made planetfall and stepped straight into this tavern or bar.
  The poisonous climates of hot and alien worlds seem to reek
  and threaten from his very clothing. His cheeks are hollow, his eyes
  crazed and bright and empty, and he is drinking heavily and without
  pleasure. Next to him is a heavier unit, a homin female burlier than
  him (and he came from Skâr by the look of him, also judging from where
  we /are/, mythical old Yrth itself is the next planet away!) -- not
  a pretty woman next to him, not gracile like a Wâhazene. Next to
  /her/ is a starved addict, actually a Wâhazene to judge by her
  appearance, as we seem wont to do here. She is snorting /foifir/
  from an iridium mirror laid upon the wooden table. She raises
  herself up, red hair flying. --"That's good, that's better," she
  says and wipes her lovely, trifling nose.

  ... now a gentleman who is surely a scholar in the local academe is
  growing drunken and prolix on the subject of the latest
  Date-of-Easter controversy, a large and Gordian affair considering
  that here on Wâhaz it's based on the motions in outerspace of an
  alien world and how best to translate them onto the surface and into
  the minds of the people of Wâhaz, and considering that no matter the
  final decision few will care and those who still object to it will
  be implacable in their hatred of the teaching for the rest of their
  lives. So says the gentleman scholar. It is not occuring to him that
  these people at the next table -- a man, a spacer by the look of
  him, and two women -- probably do not attend Mass at any Holy
  Martian Catholic Church.
